Now we're gonna discuss
what all this data means
and so, for this lecture
I'm just go over section A
and section A is all the data in this blue box up until here
in AF and then we'll discuss section B data
in the next lecture,
rinse, lather and repeat for the rest.
You get the idea, okay, cool.
So, if you're not already on your portfolio page,
please make sure to click it
and oops, I forgot to click Done With This Exercise,
so I click that, good.
Okay, so I'm gonna through what all of these items mean now
in section A
and if you want more real estate
you can minimize this stuff here
and I will hide this.
Sometimes it takes a second to hide.
Hold on a second.
Okay, good, now, I'm gonna go through
what all this stuff means
and what I'll also do is I'm actually going to unhide
this column here
which is gonna be all the descriptions
for each of these items here
and you can read through these if you want to later.
We'll always come back to it if you're not sure
what a certain column means.
So, let's go through this.
So, we know what the ticker is,
it's a unique symbol that identifies the stock
and there's also tickers for indexes as well
and commodities which we covered
and we'll continue to cover in this course.
This is the name, it's self-explanatory,
and I'm gonna scroll over here
as we go through this.
Market cap means the value of the company,
so if you take the number of outstanding shares
times the price, that's how much the company is worth
and so, Apple, for example,
as of this recording is worth about 900 billion US dollars.
This is the price that Apple last traded at,
the percent change, it was unchanged,
the daily changes their stock,
that's self-explanatory.
The highest price here, day high,
this is the highest price that Apple reached
in the last day of trading,
that's the lowest price.
That's what the stock or ETF opened at,
so Apple opened that day at that price.
That's what it closed at the previous day.
This is the number of shares that traded.
And so, you always want to make sure
that the stocks trade a lot
otherwise they're hard to get out of
and if you invest in companies
that don't trade that much,
meaning they don't have a high volume,
then what happens is you become a stock holder
and these shares own you
and not vice versa
if you try to get out of them
and the market's going south
and so, Apple on this particular day
traded 16.35 million shares.
So, basically what you do is you take 16.35 million shares
times the stock price.
And that's how many shares traded that day.
And you can see here that the tip
which is an ETF for a bond
wasn't that liquid
but it's liquid enough for us to be able
to get in and out of
and when I managed a hedge fund in the past
I would never invest in a stock
that was illiquid
meaning there weren't that many shares traded daily
and this here is the average number of shares traded
over the past several months or so.
This is the lowest price the stock has been
in the last 52 weeks.
This is the highest price,
this is the dollar change
from the 52-week high,
it's always going to be negative,
always unless we're right at the 52-week high right now.
So, I think it makes sense.
It's self-explanatory.
If you have questions, let me know.
This is the dollar change from the 52-week low
and it's always gonna be black.
This was the time last trade was executed,
so right now where it's Sunday morning
very, very early
and this was two days ago on Friday
and this is the high and the low for the day,
this is the number of shares outstanding
that are available to trade
and that's the percent change
from the 52-week high,
percent from 52-week low
and this here is the book value per share,
so what that means is this
and value investors love this.
We'll talk about value investors very soon.
It basically means if you decide
to close the company today,
and you sold every asset the company has,
like their buildings, their land, cars
or machines or whatever it is,
then this is what you would get for it per share.
In value investors, as I'll take about soon,
love to buy companies that trade at a price
divided by the book per share of one or less.
And this is the dividend pay date
and this is important if you're an investor
and you love dividends
because sometimes you'll see a stock
go down a little bit after they pay a dividend
and you'll understand why the stock went down
because shareholders over there
just for the dividend selling the next day
and so, the market is somewhat efficient
with this, so for example,
years ago, I think it was back in 2003,
Microsoft issued a very special one-time massive dividend
and the stock gapped down
the second that dividend was paid to shareholders
and this is the dividend yield
and what this means
is how much money you get per share
relative to the price
and so, value investors like Warren Buffet
love to invest in companies
that have high dividends,
so GE for example, General Electric
is the ticker or GE,
there's a five and a half percent dividend yield
so that means that for the stock you own,
5.5% of the value of that stock
will be paid to you as a cash dividend.
And you'll see of course the ETFs don't have
these dividends here,
and Facebook is growing very fast right now
so there's no dividend yet
because investors want them to grow.
Apple's growth has slowed
and have so much cash
which is a high-class problem they have,
so they've started to issue a dividend
and this is Exon 3.6%.
Exon usually trades based on what the price of oil is,
that's the stock driver.
This is the dividend per share,
this here is the price earnings ratio
and we'll talk a lot about valuations soon
but if you basically said that a price earnings ratio
for a stock is 14 times
which is for Apple,
then what that means is for every one dollar
that Apple makes, investors are paying 14 times
that one dollar.
Lower is better
and Facebook is growing faster
than Apple, so Facebook is actually in a trade
at a higher priced earnings multiple.
And we'll talk about this in more detail soon.
This here's the peg ratio,
so basically you take what the price earnings is,
divided by what the earnings growth rate is,
so for Facebook, Facebook is growing at close
to one times its earnings growth rate
which is attractive for many investors.
So, Facebook's drawing at maybe 26 or 25%
earnings wise and the PE multiple is 27 times,
so if you take 27 times divided by the growth rate
which is 25 or 26% or so,
then you basically get a price to earnings growth rate
or a peg ratio of 1.1 times
which is really, really attractive
and people love to see this way under two times
and that's mainly for growth investors
and not value investors
and we'll talk about the difference
between growth and value very soon.
Price to book we talked about that,
so Apple is trading at 6.7 times price to book.
That sort of thing.
And then this is the PE ratio which we've talked about
and we've also got the forward PE ratio here
which basically means
what investors are expecting
the company to make earnings wise,
so you take the price to stock today,
divide it by what investors are expecting
for earnings next year,
so that's a forward-looking price earnings
of 14 times and we love to look forward instead of backwards
but this is the trailing or historical
meaning last year's earnings
or most current year,
so Apple is trading at 19 times
the current year's earnings
and 14 times next year's earnings
and this PE is lower
because Apple is growing.
Earnings will be higher in the next year
and this year is price to sales,
it's the last thing I'll talk about for section A
and then next lecture
we'll talk about section B
but price to sales basically is you take
the price of the stock
divided by the revenue
and revenue and sales is the same thing
and what happens is investors love to look at this
if the company doesn't have earnings yet,
so if it's a high-flying tech stock
like Snapchat or whatever,
investors cannot look at price to earnings
because there is no price to earnings ratio yet
because that company for example is not profitable yet
and so, they have to look at price
to sales instead of price to earnings.
And value investors don't care about this.
So, we're done talking about section A.
If you have any questions about the columns
discussed in section A,
please let me know
and again, in the next lecture
we'll talk about section B.
Thank you.